>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Test
containers and real databases.
So you may recall that I mentioned that
the EF Core in memory database is not
recommended to be used by anybody,
it doesn't be recommended.
Nobody at Microsoft would recommend it.
No developer who knows
better would recommend it.
It's not useful and
it shouldn't be used at all.
But if you had me in a corner,
I would tell you that I
would prefer you write tests with
that than not write tests at all.
So I think we've demonstrated that
the SQLite in memory database is a perfect
substitute because it actually
is a real database in many ways.
But you're not using SQLite in production.
You're probably not using
it in production at all.
You might be using it for a small app that
might run on a remote server somewhere
that needs to track its own data.
But for a SaaS product or an ASP.NET Core
web app, you're not gonna be using SQLite.
You're probably gonna use something
like SQL Server or MySQL or Postgres.
So wouldn't it be easy if you could have a
test that spins up a real production like
database and tears it down cleanly?
Well, I wanted to introduce you to
something called Testcontainer,
this is something I use a lot, which is
a library that allows you to spin up real
databases in containers for your tests.
So I do want to just
walk through this code.
I'm not gonna walk
through a refactor of it.
This is where we are going to go to file,
and
we're gonna go to open folder,
and we're gonna 4-Z-final, and
we're gonna look at the kind of
the final product of this entire course.
I'm gonna go to solutions explore, and
I just wanna walk you
through a couple of things.
I wanna show you that in our Program.cs,
we are actually creating
a PostgreSql container instance.
So this is using a NuGet package
Testcontainers.PostgreSql.
Should also mention at this point
that because we're using containers,
this does require Docker, and
I have it running up here.
You can see that my Docker
desktop is running.
If I open my dashboard,
I don't see any containers.
You don't have to have a ton of experience
with Docker to use this library.
But Docker is definitely something
that I recommend that you look into,
especially considering you will probably
Probably host some of your ASP.NET Core
apps on Docker.
At some point you're going to see that
I've removed all references to SQLite.
Instead I'm using NPG,
which stands for n, .NET, PostgreSQL.
I've got my query tracking behavior
turned off, which is fine.
I'm going to go to here and
show you the project file to see that
SQLite is truly and entirely gone.
What I basically done is basically
when you start up this app,
it will actually start up.
And just with these two lines of code,
will actually create and
run a Postgres database for you.
And we can see that because down here you
can see that, if we caught it real quick.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: We
actually are starting a container.
And if we switch back over
to our Docker instance,
we can see that we've got
some containers running.
And it's actually done the migrations.
It's seeded the database and it's actually
running against a real Postgres database.
So if you're using Postgres or using
SQL Server, whichever database you use,
it doesn't really matter, something other
than SQLite for most production apps.
This is a really useful thing and
it's really useful because without it,
you'd have to do a couple of weird
things to deal with some kind of
idiosyncrasies between
different database providers.
Take for instance, these migrations and
migrations are probably the biggest reason
to just use test containers as opposed
to a SQLite in memory database.
So we can create this table here.
You see, you notice that this call to
CreateTable here actually looks a little
bit different.
The fields are a little bit different
if you go back and compare them.
The data types are different.
That's because data types are not
ubiquitous across database systems, right?
You have SQL server that has varchar
nvarchar.
You have Postgres that simply has text.
They are all different, and
you can't apply a set of SQLite
migrations to Postgres or vice versa.
So what I've done is simply just
removed a SQLite entirely and
just added in the Postgres migration.
So I took out all those migrations.
There's a couple of techniques you can use
to do them apart, to tear them apart, but
I don't recommend that you do that.
Simply because it's just when you
have something as easy to use as test
containers, it's usually
just not worth the effort.
You'll also note that our
CustomWebApplicationFactory is a heck
of a lot simpler,
that's really because I'm
spinning up the PostgreSQL
container in our Program.cs file.
In practice, you would probably connect
to a real Postgres database there.
And then inside of your tests,
you would actually use test containers
to actually run your tests.
So I am kinda cheating a little bit and
putting my test container inside
of my Program.cs, but
inevitably it's not going to live there.
It's really only going to live
inside of your test project.
That's where you're gonna have
test containers installed.
So if I run all these tests,
you'll see dotnet test.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: It takes
a little bit because it takes time to spin
up that docker container,
a few second penalty, not a big deal.
Then you see that all of our tests pass.
We did have to make a couple of tweaks to
the tests in order to get them to pass.
I did find that there was
a couple of subtle bugs,
and I documented there, because I was
using a different database provider,
there was a couple of subtle
different things between the tests.
I actually found a bug in my original
code, I went back and checked it all,
where I was only returning one
record per page, as opposed to 100.
So I went back and fixed that.
Changing to Postgres actually
helped me discover that.
So just a little bit more of
kind of the behind the scenes,
a little bit of the journey.
The point of this that I would say,
use test containers.
It's an awesome abstraction,
great for running tests.